<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta content="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles/zstylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>Recipe for Hand Sanitiser</title>
</head>

<body>
	<h1 class="heading">Recipe for Hand Sanitiser</h1>

	<div class="greybox">
  		<p class="noindent">As emphasised in the <a href="medicine.xhtml">Medicine</a> chapter it is important to maintain personal hygiene in a survival situation.</p>
		
		<p class="noindent top">Below is an experimental recipe for hand sanitiser which was shared on Telegram (and in other places such as blogs) around at the beginning of the COVID-19 epidemic in 2020 due to the supply shortages back then.</p>
	</div>

	<div class="warningbox">
		<p class="noindent"><b>CAUTION</b></p>

		<p class="noindent top">This recipe is untested. From my own experience none of these ingredients should irritate or be caustic (burn or be corrosive) to skin.</p>
	</div>

	<h1 class="subheading">Homemade Hand Sanitizer: A Natural DIY Recipe</h1>

	<p class="noindent top">YIELD 4 OUNCES</p>

	<p class="noindent top"><b>Ingredients</b></p>

	<ul>
		<li>0.25-0.5ml (5-10 drops) lavender essential oil</li>
		<li>1.5 ml (30 drops) tea-tree essential oil</li>
		<li>84 ml (3 fluid ounces) high-proof vodka (such as Everclear), or isopropyl alcohol (rubbing alcohol) can be substituted</li>
		<li>28 ml (1 fluid ounce) pure aloe vera gel</li>
		<li>1.25 ml (<sup class="fraction">1</sup>/<sub class="fraction">4</sub> teaspoon) Vitamin E oil</li>
	</ul>

	<p class="noindent top"><b>Instructions</b></p>

	<ol>
 		<li>Add essential oils and Vitamin E oil to a small glass bowl or container and swirl to mix.</li>
 		<li>Add alcohol to the oils and swirl again.</li>
 		<li>Combine this mixture with the aloe vera gel and mix well.</li>
 		<li>Shake gently before each use. (Sanitizer should last several months with the addition of Vitamin E and alcohol to help preserve).</li>
		<li>Transfer hand sanitizer to small, clean squirt bottles. Also, use colored bottles, so that the essential oils in the recipe are not exposed to light.</li>
	</ol>

	<p class="noindent top"><b>Notes</b></p>

	<ul>
		<li>To make a hand sanitizer spray, simply use witch hazel instead of aloe vera gel in this recipe.</li>
		<li>Tea tree oil has been found in clinical studies to kill most types of bacteria at a concentration of 0.5-1%.</li>
	</ul>

</body>
</html>
