<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="" xml:lang="">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0, user-scalable=yes" />
  <title>TranslatorNotes</title>
  <style type="text/css">
      code{white-space: pre-wrap;}
      span.smallcaps{font-variant: small-caps;}
      span.underline{text-decoration: underline;}
      div.column{display: inline-block; vertical-align: top; width: 50%;}
  </style>
</head>
<body>
<p>Hello to all translators,</p>
<p>first of all thanks for your overwhelmingly interest in translating the survival manual! I am writing this as I got a lot of requests and mails regarding the state of translations. From a distance it sounds really easy - and for normal apps it sometimes is - but there are some special problems regarding translation with this app:</p>
<ul>
<li>There is text in images - this text has to be extracted so it can be translated. This also makes the app smaller! For a lot of list-style images like <a href="https://survivalmanual.github.io/fig08-04.png">https://survivalmanual.github.io/fig08-04.png</a> this is easy - but for images where text is embedded in drawings - this is more complicated</li>
<li>Currently imperial measuring units ( like miles / fahrenheit ) are used - Ideally this should also be translation vector.</li>
<li>I imagine changes in the source language - there needs to be a way to keep them in sync ( especially for lists )</li>
<li>The text must be completely de-militarized before translating - I already did some of that but it is not yet complete</li>
<li>Having a lot of languages makes the app bigger ( especially if there is a lot of text ) - there need to be a way to deal with this ( e.g. a language-apk split - or downloadable packs ) - I do not want to waste space for a lot of languages I will never read</li>
<li>..</li>
</ul>
<p>These are the reasons I cannot just put the stuff in a translation management interface like transifex and give a go for translators which I would do usually do. If you see solutions to these problems please let me know. At some point I will give a go for translations - but I want to have a system where I have a way to deal with the problems I see - or at least see a way to deal with them in the future and having a way to keep translations in sync.</p>
</body>
</html>
