<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta content="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles/zstylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)</title>
</head>
<body>
  <h1 class="heading">Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)</h1>

	<p class="noindent top"><i>Q: Can you make this app work with the ultra power saving mode on Samsung devices?</i></p>

	<p class="noindent top">A: It does not seem to be possible. As far as I was able to find out – apps have to be white-listed from Samsung. I have found no option to do this from the app-side. Would love to be able to do this – but it does not seem to be possible. If you know a way please let me know! Also if someone has contact with vendors like Samsung – I also would love if this app gets preinstalled on new phones. :-)</p>

	<p class="noindent top"><i>Q: I found a typo – do I have to live with it?</i></p>

	<p class="noindent top">A: No – you are very invited to fix the typo or contribute other enhancements to the content via <a href="https://github.com/ligi/SurvivalManual/wiki">the wiki</a>.</p>

	<p class="noindent top"><i>Q: Can we please have translations?</i></p>

	<p class="noindent top">A: Yes – but it’s complicated. You can read about this <a href="appendix-translatornotes.xhtml">here</a>. That said I will start with partial translation support (some sections and in app translations) soon and there are already a lot of translators standing by already (thanks a lot for this). But first, the current content has to be improved more. It would be great help if people could break up the images with lists into markdown which is easier to translate and needs less space.</p>

	<p class="noindent top"><i>Q: It says offline – why does it still need internet permission?</i></p>

	<p class="noindent top">A: The premise of “offline” here is that the app will work without the internet in survival situations – but might still use the internet if it is available. If you do not want this you can still put your phone e.g. in airplane mode.</p>

	<p class="noindent top"><i>Q: Can you please not express any political opinions in this app?</i></p>

	<p class="noindent top">A: No – I am not keeping my mouth shut for you – if you cannot take other opinions you should think about your own – maybe they are so fragile that you are afraid of others.</p>
</body>
</html>
