<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta content="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles/zstylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>MultiTool</title>
</head>
<body>
  <h1 class="heading">MultiTools</h1>

  <div class="greybox">
    <p class="noindent">A MultiTool (or penknife) can be useful in everyday life – not only in survival situations.</p>
  </div>

  <h1 id="what-does-it-provide" class="subheading">What does a MultiTool provide?</h1>

  <p class="noindent top">A MultiTool can provide a lot of tools – hence the name. There are different options available. It is always a tradeoff between weight/size and the amount/set of tools. The commonly available tools in a typical MultiTool are:</p>

  <ul>
    <li>Knife</li>
    <li>Can-Opener / Corkscrew</li>
    <li>Screwdriver</li>
    <li>Pliers / Tweezers</li>
    <li>Wire-Cutter</li>
    <li>Wood-Saw</li>
    <li>…</li>
  </ul>

  <p class="noindent top">But there are also special tools like: bit-drivers, whistle, scissors, Ferrocerium Rod to spark a fire, Sharpener, ...</p>

  <p class="noindent top">If you use a MultiTool in everyday life, then you will know how to use it in a survival situation. The speed in which you can use tool, and the confidence you have with it will be a decision between life and death.</p>

  <h1 id="which-MultiTool" class="subheading">Which MultiTool should I use?</h1>

  <h2 id="leatherman" class="subheading">Leatherman</h2>

  <p class="noindent top">There are a lot of options out there. I really like my <a href="https://www.amazon.com/dp/B00BETYQG0">Leatherman OHT</a>. Most of the time I carry it when I go out.</p>

  <p class="noindent top">I leave my Leatherman OHT at home when I want to go dance and jump around or have to go to a place with security that might have a problem with the tool as it contains a sharp knife. At some point I might buy a <a href="https://www.amazon.com/dp/B018IOXXP8">Tread Bracelet MultiTool</a> for these cases.</p>

  <p class="noindent top">Also, I like the story behind the company. There is a nice video with the <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QJwyIF4VBTk">inventor on YouTube</a>. He wanted this tool and persisted in a very humble way. He is also proudly showing the durability in this video – really worth a look if you still have internet ;-)</p>

  <h2 id="victorinox" class="subheading">Victorinox</h2>

  <p class="noindent top">Another option is Victorinox, the Swiss provider of the Swiss Army Knife (along with being a Swiss-owned Wenger company).</p>
  
  <p class="noindent top">There is less diversity with the model shapes – two in fact, straight or ergonomic. Victorinox offers a serious selection of embeddable tools. One recommendation is the SwissTool Spirit (the ergonomic one).</p>

  <p class="noindent top">Alternatively, there are credit card-sized MultiTools called <i>Swiss Cards</i>. These have many of the tools that their larger MultiTools have, but are lighter and can fit in your wallet.</p>
</body>
</html>
