<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta content="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles/zstylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>Recipe for Hand Sanitizer</title>
</head>

<body>
	<h1 class="heading">Recipes for Hand Sanitizer</h1>

	<div class="greybox">
  		<p class="noindent">As emphasised in the <a href="basicmedicine.xhtml">Basic Medicine</a> chapter it is important to maintain personal hygiene in a survival situation.</p>
		
		<p class="noindent top">Below are two recipes for hand sanitizer. One from the World Health Organization (WHO) and the other from a Telegram group.</p>
	</div>

	<h1 id="who-hand-sanitizer" class="subheading">Guide to Local Production: WHO-recommended Handrub Formulations</h1>

	<div class="warningbox">
		<p class="noindent"><b>CAUTION</b></p>
		
		<p class="noindent top">The formulations recommended by the WHO use ingredients that are highly <b>volatile</b> and <b>flammable</b>.</p>

		<p class="noindent top">Ideally hand sanitizer should be prepared in a scientific laboratory. Therefore, ensure you are in a well-ventilated area with no naked flames.</p>
	</div>

	<p class="noindent top"><i>Introduction: This Guide to Local Production of WHO-recommended Handrub Formulations is separated into two discrete but interrelated sections:</i></p>

	<p class="noindent top"><b>Part A</b> provides a practical guide for use at the pharmacy bench during the actual preparation of the formulation. Users may want to display the material on the wall of the production unit.</p>

	<p class="noindent top"><b>Part B</b> summarizes some essential background technical information and is taken from WHO Guidelines on Hand Hygiene in Health Care (2009). Within Part B the user has access to important safety and cost information and supplementary material relating to dispensers and distribution.</p>

	<h2 id="part-a" class="subheading">PART A: GUIDE TO LOCAL PRODUCTION</h2>
	
	<p class="noindent top"><i>Part A is intended to guide a local producer in the actual preparation of the formulation.</i></p>

	<p class="noindent top"><b>Materials required (small volume production) with recommended quantities:</b></p>

	<table>
		<tr><th>REAGENTS FOR FORMULATION 1:</th><th>REAGENTS FOR FORMULATION 2:</th></tr>
		<tr><td>
			<ul>
				<li>Ethanol 96%: <b>8333 ml</b></li>
				<li>Hydrogen peroxide 3%: <b>417 ml</b></li>
				<li>Glycerol 98%: <b>145 ml</b></li>
				<li>Sterile distilled or boiled cold water</li>
			</ul>
		</td>
		<td>
			<ul>
				<li>Isopropyl alcohol 99.8%: <b>7515 ml</b></li>
				<li>Hydrogen peroxide 3%: <b>417 ml</b></li>
				<li>Glycerol 98%: <b>145 ml</b></li>
				<li>Sterile distilled or boiled cold water</li>
			</ul>
		</td></tr>
	</table>

	<ul>
		<li>10-litre glass or plastic bottles with screw-threaded stoppers (<b>1</b>), or</li>
		<li>50-litre plastic tanks (preferably in polypropylene or high density polyethylene, translucent so as to see the liquid level) (<b>2</b>), or</li>
		<li>Stainless steel tanks with a capacity of 80–100 litres (for mixing without overflowing) (<b>3</b>, <b>4</b>)</li>
		<li>Wooden, plastic or metal paddles for mixing (<b>5</b>)</li>
		<li>Measuring cylinders and measuring jugs (<b>6</b>, <b>7</b>)</li>
		<li>Plastic or metal funnel</li>
		<li>100 ml plastic bottles with leak-proof tops (<b>8</b>)</li>
		<li>500 ml glass or plastic bottles with screw tops (<b>8</b>)</li>
		<li>An alcoholometer: the temperature scale is at the bottom and the ethanol concentration (percentage v/v) at the top (<b>9</b>, <b>10</b>, <b>11</b>)</li>
	</ul>

	<div class="whitebox">
		<p class="noindent"><b>NOTE</b>:</p>
		<ul>
			<li>Glycerol: used as humectant [retains or preserves moisture], but other emollients may be used for skin care, provided that they are cheap, widely available and miscible in water and alcohol and do not add to toxicity, or promote allergy.</li>
			<li>Hydrogen peroxide: used to inactivate contaminating bacterial spores in the solution and is not an active substance for hand antisepsis.</li>
			<li>Any further additive to both formulations should be clearly labelled and be non-toxic in case of accidental ingestion.</li>
			<li>A colorant may be added to allow differentiation from other fluids, but should not add to toxicity, promote allergy, or interfere with antimicrobial properties. The addition of perfumes or dyes is not recommended due to risk of allergic reactions.</li>
		</ul>
	</div>

	<h2 class="subheading">Step by step preparation</h2>

	<table>
		<tr><td class="left"><b>1.</b> The alcohol for the formula to be used is poured into the large bottle or tank up to the graduated mark.</td><td class="left"><b>2.</b> Hydrogen peroxide is added using the measuring cylinder.</td></tr>
		<tr><td class="left"><b>3.</b> Glycerol is added using a measuring cylinder. As glycerol is very viscous and sticks to the wall of the measuring cylinder, it should be rinsed with some sterile distilled or cold boiled water and then emptied into the bottle/tank.</td><td class="left"><b>4.</b> The bottle/tank is then topped up to the 10-litre mark with sterile distilled or cold boiled water.</td></tr>
		<tr><td class="left"><b>5.</b> The lid or the screw cap is placed on the tank/bottle as soon as possible after preparation, in order to prevent evaporation.</td><td class="left"><b>6.</b> The solution is mixed by shaking gently where appropriate or by using a paddle.</td></tr>
		<tr><td colspan="2" class="left"><b>7.</b> Immediately divide up the solution into its final containers (e.g. 500 or 100 ml plastic bottles), and place the bottles in quarantine for 72 hours before use. This allows time for any spores present in the alcohol or the new/re-used bottles to be destroyed.</td></tr>
	</table>

	<h2 class="subheading">Final products</h2>

	<p class="noindent top">Final concentrations for both reagents:</p>

	<table>
		<tr><th>FORMULATION 1:</th><th>FORMULATION 2:</th></tr>
		<tr><td>
			<ul>
				<li>Ethanol 80% (v/v),</li>
				<li>Glycerol 1.45% (v/v),</li>
				<li>Hydrogen peroxide 0.125% (v/v)</li>
			</ul>
		</td>
		<td>
			<ul>
				<li>Isopropyl alcohol 75% (v/v),</li>
				<li>Glycerol 1.45% (v/v),</li>
				<li>Hydrogen peroxide 0.125% (v/v)</li>
			</ul>
		</td></tr>
	</table>

	<h2 class="subheading">General information</h2>

	<p class="noindent top">Labelling should be in accordance with national guidelines and should include the following:</p>

	<ul>
		<li>Name of institution</li>
		<li>WHO-recommended handrub formulation</li>
		<li>For external use only</li>
		<li>Avoid contact with eyes</li>
		<li>Keep out of the reach of children</li>
		<li>Date of production and batch number</li>
		<li>Use: Apply a palmful of alcohol-based handrub and cover all surfaces of the hands. Rub hands until dry</li>
		<li>Composition: ethanol or isopropanol, glycerol and hydrogen peroxide</li>
		<li>Flammable: keep away from flame and heat</li>
	</ul>

	<p class="noindent top">...</p>
	
	<h1 id="experimental-hand-sanitizer" class="subheading">Experimental Hand Sanitizer</h1>

	<p class="noindent top">This is an experimental recipe for hand sanitizer which was shared around on Telegram (and on other places such as blogs) at the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020 due to the supply shortages back then.</p>

	<div class="warningbox">
		<p class="noindent"><b>CAUTION</b></p>
		
		<p class="noindent top">The recipe is currently <b>untested</b>. From my own experience none of these ingredients should irritate or be caustic (burn or be corrosive) to skin.</p>
	</div>

	<h2 class="subheading">Homemade Hand Sanitizer: A Natural DIY Recipe</h2>

	<p class="noindent top">YIELD 4 OUNCES</p>

	<p class="noindent top"><b>Ingredients</b></p>

	<ul>
		<li>0.25–0.5ml (5–10 drops) lavender essential oil</li>
		<li>1.5 ml (30 drops) tea-tree essential oil</li>
		<li>84 ml (3 fluid ounces) high-proof vodka (such as Everclear), or isopropyl alcohol (rubbing alcohol) can be substituted</li>
		<li>28 ml (1 fluid ounce) pure aloe vera gel</li>
		<li>1.25 ml (1/4 teaspoon) Vitamin E oil</li>
	</ul>

	<p class="noindent top"><b>Instructions</b></p>

	<ol>
 		<li>Add essential oils and Vitamin E oil to a small glass bowl or container and swirl to mix.</li>
 		<li>Add alcohol to the oils and swirl again.</li>
 		<li>Combine this mixture with the aloe vera gel and mix well.</li>
 		<li>Shake gently before each use. (Sanitizer should last several months with the addition of Vitamin E and alcohol to help preserve).</li>
		<li>Transfer hand sanitizer to small, clean squirt bottles. Also, use colored bottles, so that the essential oils in the recipe are not exposed to light.</li>
	</ol>

	<p class="noindent top"><b>Notes</b></p>

	<ul>
		<li>To make a hand sanitizer spray, simply use witch hazel instead of aloe vera gel in this recipe.</li>
		<li>Tea tree oil has been found in clinical studies to kill most types of bacteria at a concentration of 0.5–1%.</li>
	</ul>

</body>
</html>
