<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta content="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles/zstylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>Introduction</title>
</head>

<body>
	<h1 class="heading">Introduction</h1>
		
	<div class="greybox">
		<p class="noindent">This section will give you some information regarding this application, but <b>if you are in a survival situation right now</b> – please <b>skip this blurb</b> and jump directly to the section that contains the information you need.</p>
	</div>

	<p class="noindent top">This app is intended to guide you in rough times, but it can also be used to have fun outdoors and to learn things that are useful to know in case of an emergency. The fun parts can also be used to train important skills for potential survival situations. Remember, reading is only one factor – practice and understanding are also needed to increase your skillset and improve your chances of survival.</p>

	<p class="noindent top">This app is based on the FM 3 - 05.70 Field Manual – but <a href="https://github.com/ligi/SurvivalManual/wiki">it is also a wiki</a> (think of it as a Wikipedia specifically for survival), so it is easy to improve the content. That said, if you see something that can be improved or if you notice that something is missing, step up and improve the content!</p>

	<p class="noindent top">Also, if you are able to illustrate: I am currently adding new sections and am unable to illustrate (e.g. the new section on <a href="power.xhtml">Power</a> could use some images of wind and water generators). It is important to keep the images small in size – ideally they will be vector images – but black &amp; white images like the other ones in this app also work. The file sizes should be small so that people do not uninstall the app to make space and forget to re    -    install it later. This app should always be less than 10Mb in size so people can just keep it on their phones without really worrying about it.</p>

	<p class="noindent top">There will be updates to content and the app – please <a href="https://play.google.com/apps/testing/org.ligi.survivalmanual">join the BetaTesters</a> to give feedback and get the newest stuff first.</p>

	<p class="noindent top">This app is free and libre software under the GPLv3 license. You can find the source code on <a href="https://github.com/ligi/SurvivalManual">GitHub</a> – pull requests are very welcome! (However, please contact me before doing big changes so no work ends up being in vain.)</p>

	<p class="noindent top">If you have a question, please check out <a href="appendix.xhtml#faq">the FAQs</a> – it is possible your question is already answered there.</p>

	<p class="noindent top">Thanks to everyone who made this app possible! You can find some of them <a href="credits.xhtml">in the credits</a>.</p>

	<p class="noindent top">If you want to support this app, please rate it and maybe have a look at the support options on <a href="https://ligi.de/">my homepage</a>, or get some of the survival equipment you still need via my Amazon affiliate links (like the Solar USB Charger, Lifestraw water filter, and Leatherman OHT MultiTool). If you already have everything but have no money, you could get the free Audible trial and listen to the great audio book "the Martian", a beautiful survival story from another planet!</p>

	<p class="noindent top">Also, on a personal note: let's work towards a future where such a manual would not be needed as often. Let's protect our environment and stop fighting pointless wars so people are not forced to go through such awful experiences and need to fight for survival. Let's just live in peace in a beautiful, intact world!</p>

	<p class="noindent top">That said, happy surviving – live long and prosper! With the hope that you'll never actually have to use this guide, have fun preparing for potential situations and learning.</p>

	<p class="noindent top"><a href="https://ligi.de/">https://ligi.de/</a></p>

</body>
</html>
